Tom,

Here are the examples from Wigmore I mentioned. They are brief
descriptions of famous cases used by Wigmore to teach law students about
evidence. They are all from: John H. Wigmore, A Student's Textbook of
the Law of Evidence, Chicago, The Foundation Press, 1935.

The Orphans' Case (p. 43) 

The funds of an estate of orphans were in the hands of an
administrator, who was sued for a deficit. His plea was that he had paid
the money away in discharge of a bond. He produced a witness who
testified that in his presence the defendant had paid the money in
silver, bringing it on foot from his home several miles away. On further
questioning he specified the details of distance and amount. Counsel for
the plaintiff, having figured out how much the amount of dollars would
weigh in silver, found that it reached some hundreds of pounds. When he
was asked, how could such a weight be carried on foot, the witness broke
down. His testimonial evidence was false, and the verdict was for the
plaintiff.

Madeleine Smith's Case (p. 43)

In 1856 in Glasgow Madeleine Smith was having an intrigue with
L'Angelier, a Frenchman. By February, 1857, she was engaged to marry a
local suitor, and sought to repudiate L' Angelier; but he refused to
release her. On February 21 she purchased arsenic for rat poison. On
February 22, L'Angelier came to visit her, and she gave him drink, after
which he was violently ill. On March 21 he received in Edinburgh a
delayed letter from her making an appointment at her home in Glasgow for
March 19, but that date had passed. On March 22 he returned to Glasgow
and at 9 P. M. was seen going in the direction of her house; this
cirmtmstance indicated that he visited her that evening. But her
testimony denied that he had been at her house. That night, about 2 A.
M., he was found ill at his own door, and died the same morning. Arsenic
was found in his body.-The jury returned the Scotch verdict of  Not
Proven."

The Skeleton Case (p. 50)

An eminent Queen's counsel told me, apropos of the quickness with which
medical practitioners sometimes arrive at a conclusion, of a case that
occurred some years ago. A woman who had cohabited with a tradesman in a
country village suddenly disappeared. Her paramour gave out that she had
gone to America. Some years after a skeleton was found in the garden of
the house where she had lived. On examination by a medical man he at
once pronounced it to be that of the missing woman. He formed this
opinion from the circumstance that one of the teeth was gone, and that
he had extracted the corresponding one from the woman some years before.
Upon this the prosecution was instituted, and the man was committed for
trial to the assizes. Fortunately, there was time before the trial came
on for further investigation of the garden where the skeleton was found,
and on digging near the spot another skeleton was discovered, and then
another, and another; then several more. This threw some doubt upon the
identification of the bones in question, and on further inquiries being
made it turned out that the garden had once been a gypsy burial ground.

Lesurques' Case (pp. 50-51) 

In April, 1796, the mail coach from Paris to Lyons was robbed, and the
messenger and the driver were killed; 75,000 francs were stolen. After
some search, a party of four men were heard of who had been seen leaving
Paris and arriving at the post station, where the mail coach had changed
horses, just before it passed on to the spot where the robbery took
place. On the description of these men, several persons were arrested,
Joseph Lesurques among them. Lesurques denied that he had been with the
party or at any of the places. Nine persons, however, testified that
Lesurques was one of the four men that they had seen. For Lesurques,
five persons testified to an alibi in Paris; but one of them, a jeweler
who said that he had dined with Lesurques that evening in Paris, was
found to have altered the date of an entry in his books so as to
corroborate his testimony. Eighty witnesses testified to Lesurques' good
character. The jury found him guilty, and he was executed. Four years
later, however, one Dubosq, betrayed by a comrade as the real culprit,
was arrested and confessed; the witnesses who had identified Lesurques
admitted that they had been mistaken, owing to his resemblance to
Dubosq. (This celebrated case was put into drama by Sir Henry Irving,
under the title of "The Lyons Mail." It is usually cited as a case of
deceptive circumstantial evidence, but in reality it is one of deceptive
testimonial evidence.)

Maybe one or more of these could be useful.

Best,

Doug
